---
layout: post
title:  Intellectual Autobiography and Plan for Concentration (IAPC)
date:   2015-12-23 19:37
categories: iapc
permalink: /iapc/
---

I took two years at Gallatin and two years off from Gallatin for personal reasons. During my sabbatical, I learned a lot about the didactic methods I require and was perhaps overlooking in my excitement of becoming "a college student." I also had time to self-reflect and have a stronger grasp of my values. I am excited to take these lessons back to formal education and Gallatin's community.

I chose Gallatin because I wanted more intellectual freedom than other schools that would have circumscribed me to the person I was when I was 18. I knew I had a lot of interests but I wasn't sure what I wanted to do. I also knew I belonged in New York City. At the end of my college application process, I had acceptances from NYU and top art schools. I spent high school exploring different academic disciplines, as well as my natural interests and talents in artmaking. I made the judgment call then that art school would be too limiting for someone like me, interested in a wide range of ideas as well as artmaking - I believe this is still the case and I am grateful that I chose Gallatin. I knew I wanted to be in the most dynamic city in the world. I believed I could make it work.

The other thing that motivated me was my huge ego.

I came into Gallatin after a huge trauma: my mother committed suicide when I was 16, during my Junior year of high school and in the middle of the college application process. At the time of her death we had been planning for me to attend traditional art school together, and I held close to that goal. I had also started a small business in high school doing web design with a friend, and she was proud of me for it.

My ego was a buffer against the harshness of my new world. My thinking back then was self-centered: that the Self is the most important determining factor, that we all have the will to power and this will overrides all. When I chose NYU, I thought I could remake myself in New York City and forget that I was hurt, scared, shattered by my mother's death, that I was a 17 year old girl recently bereaved.

I have since learned that this is ridiculous - the world is not a vacuum. Our universe is comprised of systems, in all scales. Our past does not dissipate based on our immediate experience or accomplishments. One person, at 17, at any age, cannot change the world; cannot do it all; cannot bring back her mom from the dead.

In that sense, I came in with grandiose thoughts about being a great artist or entrepreneur, compounded by a myopic focus on the end result. I hyped and believed my own hype. I explored contemporary art courses, social entrepreneurship courses, expecting them to lead to fame. I went through the motions with certain courses, choosing to use skills I already had instead of challenging myself to build new ones. I focused on the applied and the self-directed. I procrastinated and thought certain parts of the system were trivial bullshit, which I now recognize as important.

I was Icarus; I flew too close to the sun.

I thought then that having a fantastic life would offset the horrors that I had experienced. That somehow, since I had gone to the nadir, it would oscillate to a zenith. This is faulty thinking.

I have learned a lot about myself in the past two years. I have processed a lot of trauma and bad decisions. I was living my life without noticing or enjoying where I was going. I have reversed my priorities; it has always been about the process rather than the end result, about the community rather than the individual. I come back to Gallatin ready to use my interests and talents to serve others, rather than myself.

Now I spend my time in the moment: seeing what is, first, to imagine how things can be. In a way this is an extension of my education before Gallatin. I spent my childhood and adolescence in weekly art lessons, observing real space, and then using that to create anew. Drawing practice has been integral to my life in remembering and synthesizing ideas. The process of making is important to me. The end result exists as a reminder.

I can see now that this applies to my broader approach. I want to create participatory visual experiences for others to understand their potential. My concentration is called Visualizing Human Narratives. I will be looking at data and storytelling through the lenses and disciplines of art, design, technology, and biology. How do we make sense of the world? What are the stories we tell ourselves? How can we make things better?

I will look at these questions through creating in visual modalities: drawing, coding, writing. Visual representation and tool creation are powerful, immediate ways to communicate - they mark the advent of humanity. Modern design and technology are humankind's ways of distilling the majesty of art and ingenuity of natural science. 

As a designer in the tech industry, I've seen the ways that design and technology can shape thought. This influence is often unconscious. We can now disseminate stories and messages internationally and build systems that billions of people can use. I see firsthand the ways people in the tech industry forget that technology serves humanity, and not the other way around. 

We need to remember that scale is just an aggregate even as we progress in technological advancement. Data points are individual human stories. I want to explore the underlying histories to challenge the injustices that exist, and explore new ways of being and thinking. I want to foster communities that help each person achieve.

I am inspired by symbiosis and other win-win situations. I look to biology, in particiular, because of the ways organic structures self-organize and maintain homeostasis. Technology has the promise to elevate us. With more accessible information, people can understand more ways to care about and help each other. Gallatin has reinforced that connection between diverse people and ideas are what matters. 

There are so many ways of expression and representation that our normative approaches flatten. I see a space for me to make relational art and design systems that will let me share honest narratives, and by doing so, help others to do the same. My perspective differs from many because I understand the world is not limitless. Yet, I retain optimism that we can improve. My talents are in unpacking systems and making new ones to be better. Since I think with analogies and systems and immerse myself in knowledge, I am more able to see alternate routes to proceed. I have become more empowered by knowing I can figure any given situation out. 

My plan for the rest of my Gallatin career is to take each class slowly and seriously, and explore each part of the process. Since I work fulltime, I will take one or two classes a semester. I will prioritize professors and ideas over logistic constraints. I'll collaborate with the Gallatin ecosystem of scholars and creatives, to help each other grow through making projects and critiques. I will continue making applied work outside of school and improving my technical skills through my career.

At Gallatin, I will expose myself to new ideas in interdisciplinary seminars. I will challenge myself to apply new kinds of representation to better learn the material, as well as connect ideas outside of the assignments. If the time is right, I'd consider an independent study or tutorial for intense visual practice. I want to present ideas in the right ways, which will entail a lot of study and experimentation.

I know now that I am just one data point. I hope to make humanity's story more clear. Through visually applying theory, I want to inspire myself and others to think more broadly, inclusively, and more optimistically of our potential.