---
layout: post
title:  Intellectual Autobiography and Plan for Concentration (IAPC)
date:   2015-10-08 19:02:03
categories: iapc
permalink: /iapc/
---


I took two years at Gallatin and two years off from Gallatin for personal reasons. During my sabbatical, I learned a lot about the didactic methods I require and was perhaps overlooking in my excitement of becoming "a college student." I also had time to self-reflect and learned a ton about myself. I have a stronger grasp of my values. I am excited to take these lessons back to formal education and Gallatin's community.

I chose Gallatin because I wanted more intellectual freedom than other schools that would have circumscribed me to the person I was when I was 18. I knew I had a lot of interests but I wasn't sure what I wanted to do. I also knew I belonged in New York City. At the end of my college application process, I had acceptances from NYU and top art schools. I spent high school exploring different academic disciplines, as well as my natural interests and talents: painting, stagecraft, graphic design, literary magazines, music, typography, gaming, web design, entrepreneurship. I made the judgment call then that art school would be too limiting for someone like me, interested in a wide range of ideas as well as artmaking - I believe this is still the case and I am grateful that I chose Gallatin. I knew I wanted to be in the most dynamic city in the world. I believed I could make it work.

The other thing that motivated me was my huge ego.

I came into Gallatin after a huge trauma: my mother committed suicide when I was 16, during my Junior year of high school and in the middle of the college application process. At the time of her death we had been planning for me to attend traditional art school together, and I held close to that goal. I had also started a small business in high school doing web design with a friend, and she was proud of me for it.

My ego was a buffer against the harshness of my new world. My thinking back then was self-centered: that the Self is the most important determining factor, that we all have the will to power and this will overrides all. When I chose NYU, I thought I could remake myself in New York City and forget that I was hurt, scared, shattered by my mother's death, that I was a 17 year old girl recently bereaved.

I have since learned that this is ridiculous - the world is not a vacuum. Our universe is comprised of systems, in all scales. Our past does not dissipate based on our immediate experience or accomplishments. One person, at 17, at any age, cannot change the world; cannot do it all; cannot bring back her mom from the dead.

In that sense, I came in with grandiose thoughts about being a great artist or entrepreneur, but with a myopic focus on the end result rather than enjoying or even noticing the process. I hyped and believed my own hype. I explored contemporary art courses, social entrepreneurship courses, expecting that they would come in handy someday - when I was famous. I went through the motions with certain courses, choosing to use skills I already had instead of challenging myself to build new ones. I focused on the applied and the self-directed. I procrastinated and thought certain parts of the system were trivial bullshit, which I now recognize as important.

I was Icarus; I flew too close to the sun.

I thought then that having a fantastic life would offset the horrors that I had experienced. That somehow, since I had gone to the nadir, it would oscillate to a zenith. This is faulty thinking.

--- ABOVE THIS LINE IS IA AND IT IS GREAT - NEEDS TO BE CUT DOWN ---

1. My experience with real life means a more realistic view of other peoples' stories
	- death
	- job
	- shit going down
2. understanding other people is the key to accomplishing on a personal scale and on a macro scale of improving the world
3. i believe i can help people understand each other through visual narratives

---

1. I want to study Visualizing Human Narratives, primarily a blend of Art, Design, Technology, Biology
2. In the end this is probably Anthropology
3. Exploring through visual representation, crafted and coded
4. Using that which makes us human (tools and art) to remind ourselves of our humanity - vulnerability, transparency
5. design has a huge influence on our every day - two are primarily future looking and two are primarily past looking

---

1. Also concerned with futurist notions of utopia and dystopia. Convinced that we need to be thinking about these more rigidly. In intellectual history many thinkers have tried to come up with origins in order to talk about future possibilities
2. tech has a huge opportunity here

---

- why these 4 main subjects?
- think they are analogous - just with more or less human involvement
- help people see the way things are
- realistic expectations
- unbounded possibilities
- training through art
- to see
- to render
- training through design
- to research
- to make better
- a lot of important issues in the world
- social justice
- needs to be explained in a way that people can understand
- data is important as a backbone
- visual style is important to be compelling
- sex appeal
- spreading knowledge and helping things be better
- believe in progress
- writing exercises
- five whys 1
- my concentration is in visualizing human narratives
- i am interested in telling stories through data
- i want people to understand deeper truths
- i can see those truths as well as ways that other people need to see them to understand them
- people don't really like to think or exert themselves
- people have other things to worry about on the most part, so here is making the longer term more legible

---

Nowadays, I'm much more interested in myself as a tool in making these systems better than myself as a particular winner within the system. In working as a professional designer in a large company, I've realized that design and technology have powerful influence over our everyday experience.

I want to combine my skills in building and making, my talent of seeing the bigger picture, and love of helping others.

My concentration will be entitled Visualizing Human Narratives. I will be looking at data and storytelling through the lenses and disciplines of art, design, technology, and biology. How do we make sense of the world? What are the stories we tell ourselves?

To finish up my degree, I will pursue classes which interest me and which explore the human condition.

I've shifted from being inwardly focused, like a microscope, to being generative. 

I am inspired by win-win situations. I am interested in building tools and systems. I am interested in analyzing humanity's origins (which many would argue is precipitated by tools and art) and directing where we can go in the future.

Working in the tech industry and leading the NYC collegiate tech community has taught me about the problematic culture in tech at the moment. In fact, the swagger feels like me, as a Freshman. And yet there is so much potential. I think we can change the thinking without similar catastrophes occurring. The tech industry is correct in assuming it will shape the future. I want to challenge some of the problematic foundations, so we don't build a future disaster.

We forget in all the buzzword talk about "big data" and "artificial intelligence" that technology (in the narrow sense) is just another [[cool branch]] of technology as tools. I mean this in the sense that tools are built to support humanity, to help us realize our great imaginative potential. We forget that big data is comprised of many small datapoints of individual human stories.

I want to both explore these human stories for their own sake as interesting data, as well as leverage my work as a cultural critique.

Visual representation is a powerful and immediate way to communicate - it marks the advent of humanity. Code and design are ways to amplify the messages of art through democratization. Analogies and systems.

~~~

### notes


[Stories data to bear it out. Bringing the magic of fiction into everyday life... humanizing... Tech and Design are humanmade ways to channel art and science]

[What has consistently interested me and what I've only realized now is... I've realized recently that...]

[...]

I no longer feel threatened by that which I don't know, nor jealous of what others have. I now like to challenge myself and build up skills and knowledge, while supporting others in doing so.


All these lessons learned through drawing and painting praxis are applicable here.

Meta communities // Onions // Layers // Contexts // figurative-representative is about seeing clearly, I used to do portraiture a lot. Seeing things for what things are. Improvising and riffing means training. Seeing what could be, based on an intuitive learned knowledge of what is

Become someone who makes things happen instead of waiting around and stewing - understanding that other people also yearn and feel awkward. Now that I've obtained some power, I want to use that for good and help other people up.

Intentional communities

She loves fostering inclusive communities and connecting worthy people, especially in the tech industry. Others have used the following analogies to describe her: a radar, an interpersonal basket-weaver, a Swiss Army Knife, and a simulated stimulant.

Connecting the dots - people, ideas

there are so many ways to represent information and narratives that our usual approaches don't do justice. we're taught in primary school to write double spaced 12pt times new roman pieces, in preparation of our workforce assimilation. this flattening kills the spirit and essence - the unique personality of what you're trying to express, turned into a standardized format which is easy for an overworked teacher to parse and give you your √+.

getting to college is a huge shift. you realize that your teachers are no longer mostly undifferentiated. sure, one math teacher may be more strict than another - but your professors are influential people in and of the world.

form follows function, but form is also of function.

my coursework will follow professors. i would like to do many gallatin seminars. maybe i could do independent studies or tutorials with particular interests.

---

### Goals

two- to three-page essay in which they reflect on their educational experiences and articulate their academic concentrations. the central idea(s) of their concentration and the relevant coursework. This essay is a way for students to reflect on how they learn as individuals and to develop an academic plan with long-term goals in mind. 

In writing the essay, students may want to begin by reflecting on their educational journey and exploring some of the following questions:

- Why did you choose Gallatin? What were your educational goals? Have those goals changed? Why and how?
- What educational experiences and courses (internships, seminars, independent studies, workshops, private lessons) have been influential to you? What was particularly interesting and why? What ideas have evolved from your educational experience so far?

Using these questions as a starting point, students can then turn their attention to the plan for their concentration:

- What idea, period, subject, theme, concept, discipline is of particular interest to you? Is there a central idea or theme around which your concentration may be organized?
- What kinds of study will you pursue? What types of courses (internships, seminars, independent studies, workshops, private lessons) will you take to construct the concentration and in what sequence might these classes be taken?
- What is the meaning of such a course of study? What connections does this course of study have to other work and educational experiences, and what is its relevance to your future plans for graduate study or career?

For most students, these questions are similar to those they answer when they complete the Gallatin Plan of Study form. The Intellectual Autobiography and Plan for Concentration becomes the opportunity to integrate these ideas and to help students to seek out the ways that their courses converge and coalesce into a unique, individualized course of study.
