---
layout: post
title:  Autobiographies
date:   2015-10-08 19:02:03
permalink: /autobio/
---

Literally diffing self-representation from

- 2011 entering Gallatin (Denial)
- 2012 (Anger)
- 2013 leaving Gallatin (Bargaining)
- 2014 (Depression)
- 2015 reentering Gallatin (Acceptance)

Kübler-Ross model as a nice guide but it's waves instead of linear

Make this a real time series too, that'd be fun

Mermaid and Scorpion vs. Wang Tiles

Evolving and streamlining my identity. Becoming more generative, less personally-focused

Life events that helped me figure this out

The place of drawing practice

----

# 2011

- [old grungerabbit.com](http://grungerabbit.com/index-old.php)
- Definitely not just ink a milk cart

### Etsy Bio

cheryl wu / grungerabbit

artist/designer/writer/developer MYTHICAL CREATURE. [not really. just a girl.]

17 years old and obsessed with creating. matriculating at NYU gallatin and living in NYC in a blink of an eye. continuing to write sentences in this format. painting and drawing like mad this summer and hopefully continuing to do so for a long, long time.

### GREEDYTREES

is a Freshman at New York University (Gallatin) studying art, design, business, and technology.

She likes pushing big rocks up even bigger hills, by starting projects, designing/freaking out, dreaming, wandering, arts-ing, and writing bad haiku.

----

# 2012

### hackNY

Sparkle Fairy Princess

----

# 2013

- Instagram

----
# 2014

### hackNY (modified in 2015)

Cheryl is a designer and creative coder, who currently works as a Product Designer at Nasdaq while on leave from NYU Gallatin. She is the Swiss Army Knife of Tech@NYU , where she connects New York City’s student tech leaders as the first community lead. She is passionate about improving lives through design, ecology, and education. 

----

# 2015

### Twitter

creative director++ @TechatNYU // founder @TechCollabNYC && @flawless_tech // @hackNY '12 // @NasdaqDesign product designer // UG @NYUGallatin // XX INTJ-A

### Nasdaq Intranet

###### About me and my job

I'm a Product Designer in New York as well as an undergraduate student attending Gallatin School of Individualized Study at New York University. My concentration at NYU is entitled Visualizing Human Narratives, which broadly entails storytelling through data visualization.

I am active in the NYC collegiate technology and entrepreneurship community, as an executive board member and the Creative Director of tech@NYU, a hackNY 2012 Fellow, the founder of Tech Collab NYC, and a technical mentor for NYC Generation Tech.

###### Contact me for questions and help about
Product Design, Data Visualization, Startups, Design Thinking, Real Talk

###### My background and interests
Design, Technology, Art, Biology at NYU Gallatin. Biking around the city. Central Park. Reading, writing, drawing. I love visiting art museums and galleries as well as live entertainment.

### Business Card

### UIUIU.me

### Dinner Party edit 1

cheryl wu | host, new york city | Cheryl lost her mother to suicide when she was 16, in 2010. She chose to attend NYU over art school at the last minute as she always knew she belonged here. After some New York hijinks, Cheryl got herself a fulltime Big Girl Job as a Product Designer for Nasdaq. 

She loves fostering inclusive communities and connecting worthy people, especially in the tech industry. Others have used the following analogies to describe her: a radar, an interpersonal basket-weaver, a Swiss Army Knife, and a simulated stimulant.

Cheryl became a Dinner Party host in 2015 because she was adrift with her stigmatized loss and wanted to help others in the same boat. The loss felt more acute being amongst young and optimistic peers with supportive parents. 

When not at work, organizing parties, or pursuing her undergraduate in Visualizing Human Narratives at NYU Gallatin, she loves the arts.  You'll likely find her visiting museums and galleries, reading, writing, drawing, or exploring the city's parks. She's recently taken up cycling around Manhattan like a maniac.

Cheryl lives on the Upper East Side near Central Park. She shares her studio with houseplants Stanley, Star Child, Smiangle, and Severus; several adorable (fake) bees; and inflatable dinosaur Stromae.

### Dinner Party edited down

cheryl wu | host, new york city | Cheryl lost her mother to suicide when she was 16, in 2010. She chose to attend NYU over art school at the last minute as she always knew she belonged here. After some New York lulz, Cheryl got herself a fulltime Big Girl Job as a Product Designer on Wall Street. She loves fostering inclusive communities and connecting worthy people, especially in the tech industry. Cheryl became a Dinner Party host in 2015 because she was adrift with her stigmatized loss. She wanted to meet and help other New Yorkers in the same boat. Cheryl lives on the Upper East Side near Central Park. She shares her studio apartment with houseplants Stanley, Star Child, Smiangle, and Severus; several adorable (fake) bees; and inflatable dinosaur Stromae.

### Out of the Darkness Walk

Friends,

I will be walking in the NYC Out of the Darkness walk today in memoriam of my mother, Yuh Ying Peng. I walk in honor of her life and to raise awareness for suicide prevention and mental health services.

My mother ended her own life on April 1st, 2010. This is not a bad April Fool’s joke, although I often wish it was. I have been grappling with this trauma for five years, since I was sixteen years old. It influences every aspect of my life and I miss her constantly. I have had to be strong. I have had to hide this important part of my experience.

I am tired of being strong and hiding. Suriving a loved one’s suicide is not something you “get over.” I want everyone to know that surviving can mean vulnerability and openness. I want that this should never happen again to anyone else.

My mother made a choice in 2010 that I hope none of you or your loved ones ever consider. I walk today in the hopes that my story helps someone see that people love you and things will be okay — you can get help. Suicide is a permanent solution to a temporary problem and it deeply affects your loved ones, for the rest of their lives. All problems are either fixable or you learn and grow from them. My experience as a suicide survivor has taught me that we can fix everything, even if insufficiently, except death.

In the face of trauma, I’ve become someone who cultivates inclusive and supportive communities around me. I believe we need to take care of each other and be kind. I also know firsthand that the world can be effin’ rough. The families we create for ourselves are what support us at the end of the day. I hope my efforts have not been in vain.

I would appreciate any donation you could give to AFSP in honor of my mother, to prevent suicide from shattering other lives.

Thank you!
